# The-Need-for-Speed
This project explores the relationship between the approach velocity of a roller coaster car entering a circular roller coaster built by myself and the energy losses incurred as the loop is traversed. The research question addressed is “how does the approach velocity affect the energy dissipation within a circular roller coaster loop?”. In the design of roller coasters, frictional losses are an important factor that have to be accounted for. For the first loop in a series, the frictional losses incurred are a function of the release height. For further loops, it is only the approach velocity that needs to be considered. Much has been written about the effect of frictional losses on the acceleration experienced in circular, and non-circular roller coasters. The effect of the approach velocity on the energy losses incurred is less studied. The primary energy loss is a result of heat dissipation due to frictional forces. This study will assume that heat dissipation due to aerodynamic drag is negligible compared to the dynamic friction between the car and the tracks. The study is limited to the case of circular roller coasters, but can easily be extended to approximate the relationship for clothoid curved coasters. The theory behind the motion of circular roller coasters is reviewed and a step-wise iteration is constructed to predict the energy losses incurred for varying approach velocities subject to relevant input parameters. A circular roller coaster is constructed from wood using AutoCAD and a model car is released from varying vertical heights to achieve different approach velocities. The resulting motion of the car is filmed at 240 frames/second (fps) and analyzed using video analysis software. This data is compared to the iterated results. Throughout the experimental design and data collection, care is taken to minimize the presence and effect of uncertainties.

